# Gaming-Analysis BC_ISYS3340

### Our team notices that many video games in the market quickly lose customers’ interests and demand while companies want to have a solid base of fans to enhance their profits. This situation is somehow reasonable and expected because there are a number of alternatives that stimulate customers’ interests and curiosity, and as time passes by, players become so familiar with their old games that it no longer makes them excited. However, there are games like Final Fantasy, Counter-Strike, The Legend of Zelda, and Grand Theft Auto, which have long-lasting popularity and players’ loyalty. As a result, our group starts to wonder what causes some games have so much love while others face harsh criticism. When we research over the factors that make these games long-lasting on the Internet, the answers provided are somewhat vague with a lack of quantiative evidence. Therefore, we decide to scrape data directly from two well-known gaming, Metacritics and VGChartz, and do data analysis to find the answer for our question. For this project, we are going to analyze the video games that both succeed financially and receive highly positive reviews from gamers as well as media companies on multiple platforms such as consoles, PC, or mobile devices and developed companies of different scales. Our goal is to discover commonalities among these popular video games and build a machine learning tool that receives budget as an input and outputs game features that will help gaming firms have an optimal number of copies sold.

### Data Source: Metacritics and VGChartz
### Used Tools: Python and R
